everybody Sam here today I wanted to
show you guys the Canon EF 50 printed
here on my trusty Canon 60d now this is
not an EFS lens so it mounts on the
redline and so even though it's a 50
prime lens on a crop sensor everything's
magnified 1.6 times so that comes out to
about 80 millimeters I think something
like that so if you put this on a full
crop sensor it would um it would look a
lot wider than it does on a crop sensor
such as the 60d 70 or any of the rebel
series cameras but outside this is what
it looks like
keep in mind I have a protection filter
on the top here so it's not quite that
long but it's a pretty short lens I
think it's the smallest lens that Canon
makes in terms of size it looks alright
on the on bodies um it's it's like the
cheapest build you could possibly
imagine it's just this polish plastic I
mean it looks alright I mean it but it
looks kind of like a toy take off the
cover and you'll see that it is a
fifty-two millimeter filter size see if
I can take this off just to show you the
inside there see the lens glass the
front element does not come right out to
the end it's kind of back there a little
bit which I kind of like let me screw on
my teep UV filter okay
the manual focus ring is pretty pathetic
I don't know if you can see it but it's
just this little end ring right here you
just use that right there it's usable
but it's it's not um not that fun you
have to have pretty steady hands if
you're going to want to fine-tune it
there manually autofocus speed is decent
keep in mind that this lens cost roughly
$100 so it's not you know going to have
USM focus or anything but that's from 0
to infinity no window or anything but
it's decent and it seems pretty accurate
I'll throw up some pictures in a minute
of what what the pictures look like but
this is kind of an overview of the
exterior you got one switch here for
auto manual focus so yeah the front
element does not turn when you manual
focus or auto focus so that is very user
friendly for people who like circular
polarizing filters or neutral density
circle yeah
filters so yeah so now we're going to
look at some pictures of the lens to
give an idea of what the range looks
like in the sharpness and whatnot we see
if I can crop this one in there we go so
focused on the whiskers here and this
lens is really sharp surprisingly
significantly sharper than any of the
kit lenses out there um here's another
one here to give you an idea of the
range mainly the range because some of
these are post processed in Lightroom so
yeah this this one especially it's not
too far off from the original but this
was mainly to give you an idea of the
range and here's another one right there
so uh you see if I can crop in on those
and I don't know how sharp you expect
your clouds because clouds are fuzzy
anyway but that's what that crop looks
like we'll get a couple more up here I
do believe I only played with contrast
and brightness on this one no color
correction or sharpening done on this
one let me see if I can get a crop on
that to show you what that looks like up
close unfortunately I'm not sure of my
focal points on this I think it was the
sign I'm pretty sure it was the sign but
that's what that looks like up close and
this lens does not have macro
capabilities but you can get up pretty
close I think it's 1.3 feet as the
closest distance you can focus at this
one obviously contrast blacks and
brightness played with but let me crop
that in so we can see the sharpness I
don't think I've laid the sharpness by
the way so there's that up close pretty
pretty sharp I mean it's pretty close to
what you get on an L lens I mean let me
do just a couple more here on so again
to give you an idea of the range
let me crop this one in
this mainly to give you an idea of what
people look like in the vocal range of
this lens you can shoot people with it
definitely not large groups you're gonna
have to back up quite a bit
but it's a nice lens for some shallow
depth-of-field get a nice blurred
background you know and that always
looks good with people so it's it's
decent it's definitely not a good
walk-around lens though just because the
focal range isn't isn't that flexible
one last picture here to kind of show
that it what it's good for it's really
good for for little artsy pictures where
you want to you want to get a nice
shallow depth of field you know it has
that wide open 1.8 aperture so um it's a
super sharp lens uh the the CA is pretty
bad on it I've even noticed it on just
like full screen no crop sometimes I've
noticed the the CA on it but um that's
something you can get around you know it
can be corrected
you can stop down the aperture a little
bit to uh help out with that but it's a
super sharp lens it's cheap it the build
quality isn't that great but overall
it's a good buy